# GitHub Repo Scanner

This Python script is designed to scan GitHub repositories based on a search query and save the relevant repository information in a JSON file. This can be used to analyze trends in academic papers or any other specified criteria by examining repositories that match the search terms.

## Table of Contents
- [Features](#features)
- [Requirements](#requirements)
- [Installation](#installation)
- [Usage](#usage)
- [Files](#files)
- [Contributing](#contributing)

## Features
- **GitHub Repository Search:** The script allows searching GitHub repositories using the GitHub API based on a specified query.
- **Repository Information Extraction:** It extracts essential details like repository name, URL, and more.
- **JSON Data Storage:** The extracted information is stored in a JSON file for further analysis.
- **Error Handling:** Handles API request failures and limits, such as too many requests in a short period, with appropriate messages.

## Requirements
- Python 3.x
- Requests library

## Installation
1. Clone this repository:
    ```bash
    https://github.com/Mostafamabrok/academic-repo-scanner.git
    ```
2. Navigate to the project directory:
    ```bash
    cd academic-repo-scanner
    ```
3. Install the required packages:
    ```bash
    pip install -r requirements.txt
    ```

## Usage
1. Open the `main.py` file and modify the `query` parameter in the `main()` function to match your search term.
2. Run the script:
    ```bash
    python main.py
    ```
3. The script will create a `repos_info.json` file in the project directory containing the search results.

## Files
- **main.py**: The main script containing functions to interact with the GitHub API, search for repositories, and save the results.
- **repos_info.json**: A JSON file generated by the script, containing details of repositories matching the search query.

## Script Overview
- **`api_test()`**: A test function to check if the API is working correctly with a hardcoded query.
- **`setup_boilerplate()`**: Prepares the search function that interacts with the GitHub API.
- **`basic_repo_search(query, pages=2)`**: Searches for repositories matching the query and stores their name, URL, and description in `repos_info.json`.
- **`main(query)`**: The main entry point of the script that initializes the search process.

## Contributing
Contributions are welcome! Please submit a pull request or create an issue if you have any ideas or improvements.

